# Applications are now being accepted for Summer 2021. The deadline to apply is April 23rd, 2021.

<h1>Program Description</h1>

Students will be matched with one of over 25 neuroscience laboratories at NYU Langone Health based on the student’s interest and mentor availability. Students will engage in basic neuroscience research by performing hypothesis-driven experiments, learning the use of state-of-the-art lab equipment, interpreting data, and analyzing results under the guidance of their summer mentor. They will be able to discuss primary scientific literature and develop scientific communication skills, both written and oral. They will have one-on-one mentorship, and opportunities to interact with graduate students and postdocs as well as faculty to receive additional guidance and broaden their scientific network. Students are also encouraged to participate in social activities including a picnic in Central Park, weekly gatherings over tea (‘tea time’), journal clubs with other participants, and outreach opportunities with the broader Neuroscience Institute community.

Summer interns accepted into the program will receive $15 an hour at 35 hours per week for a total of 10 weeks. Interns will also be provided with a subsidized subway/bus card for daily travel. Students will be expected to work full-time in the laboratory, to participate both in lab meetings and weekly meetings with their mentor, and to attend academic seminars. At the end of the program, students will be expected to give an oral presentation of their project and submit a 5-page research summary including a research abstract, and a one-page personal statement about their experience at NYU.
